README.md, before:

# cuttlefish-host-container
Docker container that runs Android cuttlefish emulators for x86_64, arm64, riscv64 guests

## Background
I simply wanted to run RISC-V AOSP via cuttlefish on my laptop, and the journey wasn't smooth.
* The [info](https://github.com/google/android-riscv64) is scarce, broken and conflicting
* My host machine ends up seriously "polluted" and cluttered by packages, virtual devices and run-time artifacts
* The [existing container-based solution by Google](https://source.android.com/docs/devices/cuttlefish/on-premises) is an overkill and not friendly at all

## Goal
Simple container that runs 1 cuttlefish instance inside on my x86_64 linux host.  Incidentally it can now run following guests:
1. x86 guest via crosvm
2. x86 guest via qemu
3. arm64 guest via qemu
4. riscv64 guest via qemu

## Usage
3 steps to use the container:
1. build the docker image with "docker build ..."(once)
2. create or update the cvd instance with "cf-init.sh ..." (infrequently, as needed)
    1. populate/update instance with aosp img zip and/or cvd host package
3. run the cvd instance with "cf-run.sh" (frequently)

Below is a sample execution sequence.

```
docker build . -t cf-host

./cf-init.sh -P aosp_cf_x86_64_only_phone-img-14421689.zip -H cvd-host_package.tar.gz

# run with qemu
./cf-run.sh
gvncviewer localhost

# or run with crosvm, much faster
./cf-run.sh -- -e CF_VM_MANAGER=crosvm -e CF_START_WEBRTC=true
firefox https://localhost:8443
```

You can find product img zip file and cvd host package from [Google aosp build artifacts site](https://ci.android.com/builds/branches/aosp-android-latest-release/grid?legacy=1).

Or [build them from your own aosp tree](https://source.android.com/docs/setup/build/building),
```
source build/envsetup.sh
lunch aosp_cf_x86_64_only_phone-aosp_current-userdebug
m dist
# those two packages can be found under $(ANDROID_ROOT)/out/dist/
```
Additional notes:
* run "cf-init.sh -h" and "cf-run.sh -h" for more info
* to create multiple containers/instances, create multiple directories.  For example, "mkdir riscv; cd riscv; ../cf-init.sh ....; ../cf-run.sh".
  * However, you can only run 1 of them at any time due to port conflict.
* ADB, VNC ports are visiable to host LAN.  So you can run it on a headless server.

## TODO
* GPU acceleration does not work yet

---
![Screenshot 2025-12-17 204158](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dff3fb6a-461b-440c-a323-85a6d6f9ad81)

Commit message:

Update README with adb connection instructions
Added instructions for connecting to the cvd instance via adb.

README.md, after:

# cuttlefish-host-container
Docker container that runs Android cuttlefish emulators for x86_64, arm64, riscv64 guests

## Background
I simply wanted to run RISC-V AOSP via cuttlefish on my laptop, and the journey wasn't smooth.
* The [info](https://github.com/google/android-riscv64) is scarce, broken and conflicting
* My host machine ends up seriously "polluted" and cluttered by packages, virtual devices and run-time artifacts
* The [existing container-based solution by Google](https://source.android.com/docs/devices/cuttlefish/on-premises) is an overkill and not friendly at all

## Goal
Simple container that runs 1 cuttlefish instance inside on my x86_64 linux host.  Incidentally it can now run following guests:
1. x86 guest via crosvm
2. x86 guest via qemu
3. arm64 guest via qemu
4. riscv64 guest via qemu

## Usage
3 steps to use the container:
1. build the docker image with "docker build ..."(once)
2. create or update the cvd instance with "cf-init.sh ..." (infrequently, as needed)
    1. populate/update instance with aosp img zip and/or cvd host package
3. run the cvd instance with "cf-run.sh" (frequently)
    1. connect to the instance via adb, vnc or webrtc

Below is a sample execution sequence.

```
docker build . -t cf-host

./cf-init.sh -P aosp_cf_x86_64_only_phone-img-14421689.zip -H cvd-host_package.tar.gz

# run with qemu
./cf-run.sh
gvncviewer localhost

# or run with crosvm, much faster
./cf-run.sh -- -e CF_VM_MANAGER=crosvm -e CF_START_WEBRTC=true
firefox https://localhost:8443

# connect via adb
adb connect localhost:6520
```

You can find product img zip file and cvd host package from [Google aosp build artifacts site](https://ci.android.com/builds/branches/aosp-android-latest-release/grid?legacy=1).

Or [build them from your own aosp tree](https://source.android.com/docs/setup/build/building),
```
source build/envsetup.sh
lunch aosp_cf_x86_64_only_phone-aosp_current-userdebug
m dist
# those two packages can be found under $(ANDROID_ROOT)/out/dist/
```
Additional notes:
* run "cf-init.sh -h" and "cf-run.sh -h" for more info
* to create multiple containers/instances, create multiple directories.  For example, "mkdir riscv; cd riscv; ../cf-init.sh ....; ../cf-run.sh".
  * However, you can only run 1 of them at any time due to port conflict.
* ADB, VNC ports are visiable to host LAN.  So you can run it on a headless server.

## TODO
* GPU acceleration does not work yet

---
![Screenshot 2025-12-17 204158](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dff3fb6a-461b-440c-a323-85a6d6f9ad81)
